content/blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Fresh & shiny website, hurray!"
description = "A fresh and shiny new website, hurray!"

[taxonomies]
categories = ["release"]
tags = ["website"]
+++

My personal website had basically been unchanged, lacking content, collecting
dust, since 2011 _(!!!)_, and here we are, more than 8 years later.

Finally, I made some effort to revamp my personal website &ndash; _something you
obviously want to be proper looking_ &ndash; to scrap the previous.
I put some work in building a custom template to properly personalize it, with a
dark interface to reflect the stereotypical developer. It has some bold design
choices, so it'll be exciting how it works out.

Surprise surprise, you're currently visiting the fresh and shiny new website.
_Or not so shiny after all, because it's dark._

<!-- more -->

## Show me!

Alright, we went from:

{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/before-home.png") }}

to ...

{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-home.png") }}
{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-about.png") }}
{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-dungeon-maze.png") }}

It'll undergo some visual changes and improvements based on user feedback for
sure, but the majority of it stands.

## Blog
With this revamp, I introduced the ability for easy blogging.
I intend to use this website as a simple blog platform to share cool code
snippets, project releases, simple tutorials, useful findings and to share my
experience with various topics I'm interested in.
I'm not a writer, so let's see how this works out.

Notice the [Blog](@/blog/_index.md) section for an overview of posts,
or see the sidebar (bottom of the page on mobile devices) for a listing of
[categories](/categories) and [tags](/tags) to scope on a more specific topic.

_Oh, and, you're reading the first blog post right now!_

## 3-2-1 Publish
Today (2019-07-03), along with _this_ post, I'm publishing this new website at
my personal `timvisee.com` domain. I'd be happy to hear your thoughts!

Of course, as a proper _open-sourcerer_, the source code for this website as a
whole is available on my GitHub profile [here][source].
And a big thanks to the developers of [Zola][zola] for building an amazing site
engine I was able to build this website in.

[source]: https://github.com/timvisee/timvisee.com
[zola]: https://getzola.org/

Commit message:

Add applause button to articles

content/blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Fresh & shiny website, hurray!"
description = "A fresh and shiny new website, hurray!"

[taxonomies]
categories = ["release"]
tags = ["website"]

[extra]
zenn_applause = true
+++

My personal website had basically been unchanged, lacking content, collecting
dust, since 2011 _(!!!)_, and here we are, more than 8 years later.

Finally, I made some effort to revamp my personal website &ndash; _something you
obviously want to be proper looking_ &ndash; to scrap the previous.
I put some work in building a custom template to properly personalize it, with a
dark interface to reflect the stereotypical developer. It has some bold design
choices, so it'll be exciting how it works out.

Surprise surprise, you're currently visiting the fresh and shiny new website.
_Or not so shiny after all, because it's dark._

<!-- more -->

## Show me!

Alright, we went from:

{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/before-home.png") }}

to ...

{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-home.png") }}
{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-about.png") }}
{{ fit_image(path="blog/2019-07-03_fresh_shiny_website_hurray/after-dungeon-maze.png") }}

It'll undergo some visual changes and improvements based on user feedback for
sure, but the majority of it stands.

## Blog
With this revamp, I introduced the ability for easy blogging.
I intend to use this website as a simple blog platform to share cool code
snippets, project releases, simple tutorials, useful findings and to share my
experience with various topics I'm interested in.
I'm not a writer, so let's see how this works out.

Notice the [Blog](@/blog/_index.md) section for an overview of posts,
or see the sidebar (bottom of the page on mobile devices) for a listing of
[categories](/categories) and [tags](/tags) to scope on a more specific topic.

_Oh, and, you're reading the first blog post right now!_

## 3-2-1 Publish
Today (2019-07-03) I'm publishing this new website at my personal `timvisee.com`
domain along with this post. I'd be happy to hear your thoughts!

Of course, as a proper _open-sourcerer_, the source code for this website as a
whole is available in [this][source] repository.
And a big thanks to the developers of [Zola][zola] for building an amazing site
engine I was able to build this website in.

[source]: https://github.com/timvisee/timvisee.com
[zola]: https://getzola.org/
