content/projects.md, before:

+++
title = "Projects"
description = "Projects index"

[extra]
zenn_hide_header_meta = true
+++

#### Highlights

- [ffsend](@/projects/ffsend.md)  
    _Easily &amp; securely share files from the command line. Fully featured Firefox Send client._

- [Barbapappa](@/projects/barbapappa.md)  
    _Bar management application to manage transactions and inventory._

- [pixelpwnr](@/projects/pixelpwnr.md)  
    _Insanely fast pixelflut client for images and animations written in Rust._

#### Libraries

- [ffsend-api](@/projects/ffsend-api.md): _Firefox Send client crate_
- [pixelpwnr-render](@/projects/pixelpwnr-render.md): _pixelflut renderer crate_
- [qr2term](@/projects/qr2term.md): _terminal QR code crate_
- [version-compare](@/projects/version-compare.md): _version comparison crate_

#### Other projects:

- [Dworek](@/projects/dworek.md): _augmented production/trading game_
- [Pokoebox](@/projects/pokoebox.md): _portable speaker media center_
- [pixelpwnr-server](@/projects/pixelpwnr-server.md): _pixelflut server_

#### Other categories:

- [Bukkit projects](@/projects/bukkit.md):  _CraftBukkit plugins_

<br>

_This list is incomplete, many more projects will be added over time. Check out
my [GitHub profile][github] for a more complete overview of my projects._

[github]: https://github.com/timvisee/

Commit message:

Add VoxelTex Engine project page

content/projects.md, after:

+++
title = "Projects"
description = "Projects index"

[extra]
zenn_hide_header_meta = true
+++

#### Highlights

- [ffsend](@/projects/ffsend.md)  
    _Easily &amp; securely share files from the command line. Fully featured Firefox Send client._

- [Barbapappa](@/projects/barbapappa.md)  
    _Bar management application to manage transactions and inventory._

- [pixelpwnr](@/projects/pixelpwnr.md)  
    _Insanely fast pixelflut client for images and animations written in Rust._

#### Libraries

- [ffsend-api](@/projects/ffsend-api.md): _Firefox Send client crate_
- [pixelpwnr-render](@/projects/pixelpwnr-render.md): _pixelflut renderer crate_
- [qr2term](@/projects/qr2term.md): _terminal QR code crate_
- [version-compare](@/projects/version-compare.md): _version comparison crate_

#### Other projects:

- [Dworek](@/projects/dworek.md): _augmented production/trading game_
- [Pokoebox](@/projects/pokoebox.md): _portable speaker media center_
- [VoxelTex Engine](@/projects/voxeltex-engine.md): _3D OpenGL game engine_
- [pixelpwnr-server](@/projects/pixelpwnr-server.md): _pixelflut server_

#### Other categories:

- [Bukkit projects](@/projects/bukkit.md):  _CraftBukkit plugins_

<br>

_This list is not complete, many more projects will be added over time. Check out
my [GitHub profile][github] for a more complete overview of my projects._

[github]: https://github.com/timvisee/
