content/blog/2019-07-17_snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Snippet: Correctly capitalize names in PHP"
description = "How to correctly capitalize and normalize names in PHP with this simple snippet"
draft = true

[taxonomies]
categories = ["snippet", "blog"]
tags = ["php", "snippet"]

[extra]
zenn_applause = true
+++

When building websites with any kind of user registration, it's fascinating
what people enter in name fields. no casing, Random CASING, a dozen spaces
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;between&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;words, or nospacingatall. Seeing this always irritates me, I'd like
things to nice and be consistent.

It appears that properly normalizing name capitalization is an _unsolvable_ problem.
There is **no** consistency with regard to casing, or for any kind of name formatting for
that matter. See [_Falsehoods programmers believe about names_][name-falsehoods].

> _I always wonder how big social networks handle this._

Okay, so this isn't solveable. But at least I could try to make it _better_.
I came across [this][original] awesome PHP snippet for name capitalization a while
back, but it had a few shortages. It didn't correctly case with just a person's
last name for instance (needed when storing first/last names separate).  I decided to
improve, here is my take on it:

<!-- more -->

```php
<?php

/**
  * Normalize the given (partial) name of a person.
  *
  * - re-capitalize, take last name inserts into account
  * - remove excess white spaces
  *
  * Snippet from: https://timvisee.com/blog/snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php
  *
  * @param string $name The input name.
  * @return string The normalized name.
  */
function name_case($name) {
    // A list of properly cased parts
    $CASED = [
      "O'", "l'", "d'", 'St.', 'Mc', 'the', 'van', 'het', 'ten', 'den', 'von',
      'und', 'der', 'de', 'da', 'of', 'and', 'III', 'IV', 'VI', 'VII', 'VIII',
      'IX',
    ];

    // Trim whitespace sequences to one space, append space to properly chunk
    $name = preg_replace('/\s+/', ' ', $name) . ' ';

    // Break name up into parts split by name separators
    $parts = preg_split('/( |-|O\'|l\'|d\'|St\\.|Mc)/i', $name, -1, PREG_SPLIT_DELIM_CAPTURE);

    // Chunk parts, use $CASED or uppercase first, remove unfinished chunks
    $parts = array_chunk($parts, 2);
    $parts = array_filter($parts, function($part) {
            return sizeof($part) == 2;
        });
    $parts = array_map(function($part) use($CASED) {
            // Extract to name and separator part
            list($name, $separator) = $name;

            // Use specified case for separator if set
            $cased = current(array_filter($CASED, function($i) use($separator) {
                return strcasecmp($i, $separator) == 0;
            }));
            $separator = $cased ? $cased : $separator;

            // Choose specified part case, or uppercase first as default
            $cased = current(array_filter($CASED, function($i) use($name) {
                return strcasecmp($i, $name) == 0;
            }));
            return [$cased ? $cased : ucfirst(strtolower($name)), $separator];
        }, $parts);
    $parts = array_map(function($part) {
            return implode($part);
        }, $parts);
    $name = implode($parts);

    // Trim and return normalized name
    return trim($name);
}
```

<details>
<summary>Tap here to expand better version for use with Laravel.</summary>

> This variant is more concise and uses a function approach using
> [Laravel collections][laravel-collections]:
>
> ```php
> <?php
>
> /**
>   * Normalize the given (partial) name of a person.
>   *
>   * - re-capitalize, take last name inserts into account
>   * - remove excess white spaces
>   *
>   * Snippet from: https://timvisee.com/blog/snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php
>   *
>   * @param string $name The input name.
>   * @return string The normalized name.
>   */
> function name_case($name) {
>     // A list of properly cased parts
>     $CASED = collect([
>         "O'", "l'", "d'", 'St.', 'Mc', 'the', 'van', 'het', 'ten', 'den', 'von',
>         'und', 'der', 'de', 'da', 'of', 'and', 'III', 'IV', 'VI', 'VII', 'VIII',
>         'IX',
>     ]);
>
>     // Trim whitespace sequences to one space, append space to properly chunk
>     $name = preg_replace('/\s+/', ' ', $name) . ' ';
>
>     // Break name up into parts split by name separators
>     $parts = preg_split('/( |-|O\'|l\'|d\'|St\\.|Mc)/i', $name, -1, PREG_SPLIT_DELIM_CAPTURE);
>
>     // Chunk parts, use $CASED or uppercase first, remove unfinished chunks
>     $name = collect($parts)
>         ->chunk(2)
>         ->filter(function($part) {
>             return $part->count() == 2;
>         })
>         ->mapSpread(function($name, $separator = null) use($CASED) {
>             // Use specified case for separator if set
>             $cased = $CASED->first(function($i) use($separator) {
>                 return strcasecmp($i, $separator) == 0;
>             });
>             $separator = $cased ?? $separator;
>
>             // Choose specified part case, or uppercase first as default
>             $cased = $CASED->first(function($i) use($name) {
>                 return strcasecmp($i, $name) == 0;
>             });
>             return [$cased ?? ucfirst(strtolower($name)), $separator];
>         })
>         ->map(function($part) {
>             return implode($part);
>         })
>         ->join('');
>
>     // Trim and return normalized name
>     return trim($name);
> }
> ```

</details>

<br />

Of course, this function fulfills the truth table given with the original
snippet:

| Input | Becomes |
| :------- | :----- |
| michael o’carrol | Michael O’Carrol |
| lucas l’amour	|	Lucas l’Amour |
| george d’onofrio | George d’Onofrio |
| william stanley iii	| William Stanley III |
| UNITED STATES OF AMERICA | United States of America |
| t. von lieres und wilkau | T. von Lieres und Wilkau |
| paul van der knaap | Paul van der Knaap |
| jean-luc picard	|	Jean-Luc Picard |
| JOHN MCLAREN | John McLaren |
| hENRIC vIII	| Henric VIII |
| VAsco da GAma	| Vasco da Gama |

And successfully passes various new cases as well:

| Input | Original snippet | This snippet |
| :------- | :--- | :----- |
| van der knaap | <u>**Van**</u> der Knaap | van der Knaap |
| l’amour	|	<u>**L’A**</u>mour | l’Amour |
| von lieres&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;UND wilkau | <u>**V**</u>on Lieres<u>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</u>und Wilkau | von Lieres und Wilkau |

<br />

> Note: Normalizing using a function like this makes it impossible for some to
> enter their name as formatted on their ID. Knowing the audience I serve,
> this is a risk I accept. It improves the overall naming situation.

I'll update this post for any improvements I make on this snippet in the future
for interesting edge cases.

Feel free to use and share.

_Thanks Armand Niculescu, for the [snippet][original] this was inspired by!_

[laravel-collections]: https://laravel.com/docs/collections
[name-falsehoods]: https://www.kalzumeus.com/2010/06/17/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-names/
[original]: https://www.media-division.com/correct-name-capitalization-in-php/

Commit message:

Improve and publish 'Snippet: Correctly capitalize names in PHP' blog post

content/blog/2019-07-17_snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Snippet: Correctly capitalize names in PHP"
description = "How to correctly capitalize and normalize names in PHP with this simple snippet"
draft = true

[taxonomies]
categories = ["snippet", "blog"]
tags = ["php", "snippet"]

[extra]
zenn_applause = true
+++

When building websites with any kind of user registration, it's fascinating
what people enter in name fields. no casing, Random CASING, a dozen spaces
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;between&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;words, or
nospacingatall. Seeing this always irritates me, I'd fancy things to nice and
be consistent.

It appears that correctly normalizing name capitalization is an _unsolvable_
puzzle. There is **no** consistency in name casing, or for any kind of name
formatting for that matter.
See [_Falsehoods programmers believe about names_][name-falsehoods].

> _I always wonder how big social networks handle this._

Okay, so this isn't solvable. But at least I could try to make it _better_.
I came across [this][original] wonderful PHP snippet for name capitalization a while
back, but it had a few shortages. It didn't correctly case with just a person's
last name for instance (needed when storing first/last names separate). I love
challenges like this and decided to improve, here is my take on it:

<!-- more -->

```php
<?php

/**
  * Normalize the given (partial) name of a person.
  *
  * - re-capitalize, take last name inserts into account
  * - remove excess white spaces
  *
  * Snippet from: https://timvisee.com/blog/snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php
  *
  * @param string $name The input name.
  * @return string The normalized name.
  */
function name_case($name) {
    // A list of properly cased parts
    $CASED = [
      "O'", "l'", "d'", 'St.', 'Mc', 'the', 'van', 'het', 'ten', 'den', 'von',
      'und', 'der', 'de', 'da', 'of', 'and', 'III', 'IV', 'VI', 'VII', 'VIII',
      'IX',
    ];

    // Trim whitespace sequences to one space, append space to properly chunk
    $name = preg_replace('/\s+/', ' ', $name) . ' ';

    // Break name up into parts split by name separators
    $parts = preg_split('/( |-|O\'|l\'|d\'|St\\.|Mc)/i', $name, -1, PREG_SPLIT_DELIM_CAPTURE);

    // Chunk parts, use $CASED or uppercase first, remove unfinished chunks
    $parts = array_chunk($parts, 2);
    $parts = array_filter($parts, function($part) {
            return sizeof($part) == 2;
        });
    $parts = array_map(function($part) use($CASED) {
            // Extract to name and separator part
            list($name, $separator) = $name;

            // Use specified case for separator if set
            $cased = current(array_filter($CASED, function($i) use($separator) {
                return strcasecmp($i, $separator) == 0;
            }));
            $separator = $cased ? $cased : $separator;

            // Choose specified part case, or uppercase first as default
            $cased = current(array_filter($CASED, function($i) use($name) {
                return strcasecmp($i, $name) == 0;
            }));
            return [$cased ? $cased : ucfirst(strtolower($name)), $separator];
        }, $parts);
    $parts = array_map(function($part) {
            return implode($part);
        }, $parts);
    $name = implode($parts);

    // Trim and return normalized name
    return trim($name);
}
```

<details>
<summary>Tap here to expand better version for use with Laravel.</summary>

> This variant is more concise and uses a function approach using
> [Laravel collections][laravel-collections]:
>
> ```php
> <?php
>
> /**
>   * Normalize the given (partial) name of a person.
>   *
>   * - re-capitalize, take last name inserts into account
>   * - remove excess white spaces
>   *
>   * Snippet from: https://timvisee.com/blog/snippet-correctly-capitalize-names-in-php
>   *
>   * @param string $name The input name.
>   * @return string The normalized name.
>   */
> function name_case($name) {
>     // A list of properly cased parts
>     $CASED = collect([
>         "O'", "l'", "d'", 'St.', 'Mc', 'the', 'van', 'het', 'ten', 'den', 'von',
>         'und', 'der', 'de', 'da', 'of', 'and', 'III', 'IV', 'VI', 'VII', 'VIII',
>         'IX',
>     ]);
>
>     // Trim whitespace sequences to one space, append space to properly chunk
>     $name = preg_replace('/\s+/', ' ', $name) . ' ';
>
>     // Break name up into parts split by name separators
>     $parts = preg_split('/( |-|O\'|l\'|d\'|St\\.|Mc)/i', $name, -1, PREG_SPLIT_DELIM_CAPTURE);
>
>     // Chunk parts, use $CASED or uppercase first, remove unfinished chunks
>     $name = collect($parts)
>         ->chunk(2)
>         ->filter(function($part) {
>             return $part->count() == 2;
>         })
>         ->mapSpread(function($name, $separator = null) use($CASED) {
>             // Use specified case for separator if set
>             $cased = $CASED->first(function($i) use($separator) {
>                 return strcasecmp($i, $separator) == 0;
>             });
>             $separator = $cased ?? $separator;
>
>             // Choose specified part case, or uppercase first as default
>             $cased = $CASED->first(function($i) use($name) {
>                 return strcasecmp($i, $name) == 0;
>             });
>             return [$cased ?? ucfirst(strtolower($name)), $separator];
>         })
>         ->map(function($part) {
>             return implode($part);
>         })
>         ->join('');
>
>     // Trim and return normalized name
>     return trim($name);
> }
> ```

</details>

<br />

Of course, this function fulfills the truth table presented with the original
snippet:

| Input | Becomes |
| :------- | :----- |
| michael o’carrol | Michael O’Carrol |
| lucas l’amour	|	Lucas l’Amour |
| george d’onofrio | George d’Onofrio |
| william stanley iii	| William Stanley III |
| UNITED STATES OF AMERICA | United States of America |
| t. von lieres und wilkau | T. von Lieres und Wilkau |
| paul van der knaap | Paul van der Knaap |
| jean-luc picard	|	Jean-Luc Picard |
| JOHN MCLAREN | John McLaren |
| hENRIC vIII	| Henric VIII |
| VAsco da GAma	| Vasco da Gama |

It neatly passes additional previously problematic situations as well.
Brilliant!

| Input | Original snippet | This snippet |
| :------- | :--- | :----- |
| van der knaap | <u>**Van**</u> der Knaap | van der Knaap |
| l’amour	|	<u>**L’A**</u>mour | l’Amour |
| von lieres&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;UND wilkau | <u>**V**</u>on Lieres<u>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</u>und Wilkau | von Lieres und Wilkau |

<br />

> Note: Normalizing using a function like this makes it impossible for some to
> enter their name as formatted on their ID. Knowing the audience you serve,
> this is a risk you can accept. It enhances the overall naming situation.

I'll update this post with improvements on this snippet I make in the future
for interesting edge cases.

Feel free to use and share.

_Special thanks to Armand Niculescu, for the [snippet][original] this was inspired by!_

[laravel-collections]: https://laravel.com/docs/collections
[name-falsehoods]: https://www.kalzumeus.com/2010/06/17/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-names/
[original]: https://www.media-division.com/correct-name-capitalization-in-php/
